# Monthly-Average-Weather
Using ERA5-Land monthly averaged data, with the codes you can obtain the monthly statitics for each municipality in Colombia from 1950 to September 2023. 

NOTE:It is worth mentioning that the original dataset (ERA5-land) is already an average over dairy temperature. In another repository, I upload the most precise and accurate way to obtain the daily, weekly, and monthly statistics from the hourly data set. 

## Variables description
Total precipitation (meters): Accumulated liquid and frozen water, including rain and snow, that falls to the Earth's surface. It is the sum of large-scale precipitation (that precipitation which is generated by large-scale weather patterns, such as troughs and cold fronts) and convective precipitation (generated by convection which occurs when air at lower levels in the atmosphere is warmer and less dense than the air above, so it rises). Precipitation variables do not include fog, dew or the precipitation that evaporates in the atmosphere before it lands at the surface of the Earth. This variable is accumulated from the beginning of the forecast time to the end of the forecast step. The units of precipitation are depth in metres. It is the depth the water would have if it were spread evenly over the grid box. Care should be taken when comparing model variables with observations, because observations are often local to a particular point in space and time, rather than representing averages over a model grid box and model time step.

Temperature: Temperature of air at 2m above the surface of land, sea or in-land waters. 2m temperature is calculated by interpolating between the lowest model level and the Earth's surface, taking account of the atmospheric conditions.
